---
title: "Research on equalization strategy of Lithium battery pack based on multi-layer circuit"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/2022-AS-LB
excerpt: '本文中针对锂电池的热监控与均衡进行了算法与硬件的研究。'
date: 2022-05-12
venue: 'Applied Sciences'
paperurl: 'https://doi.org/10.3390/app12104893'
citation: 'Wang L, Lu X, Li H, Li X, et al. Research on equalization strategy of Lithium battery pack based on multi-layer circuit[J]. Applied Sciences, 2022, 12(10): 4893.'
---

**Abstract：**
Effective balanced management of battery packs can not only increase the available capacity of a battery pack but reduce attenuation and capacity loss caused by cell inconsistencies and remove safety hazards caused by abnormal use such as overcharge and over-discharge. This research considers both the equilibration period and the battery operating current. The State of Charge (SOC), current, and equalization current of batteries are all limited. Based on the existing multi-layer equalization model, the equalization current of the equalizer was tuned with restrictions. It can equalize multiple batteries simultaneously and ensure the normal operation of the batteries. A layered control strategy was then found to solve the optimal equalization current of the equalizer layer by layer. The proposed control method reduces computation time and guarantees that the equalization approach can be employed in practice. Finally, through MATLAB simulation analysis, this technique can limit the cell current to (−3 A, 3 A), which improves the balancing efficiency by 23.55% compared with the balancing of adjacent cells.

***

**Keywords:**
Battery active equalization; Optimum control; Equilibrium strategy; Multilevel equilibrium

***

您可以访问文章页获取具体信息：[doi.org/10.3390/app12104893](https://doi.org/10.3390/app12104893)

